> This Markdown file is my résumé. It's generated by a Node script, using
> HTML+CSS and Puppeteer to print a web page as a PDF.
>
> `npm run build` will generate the actual résumé at `build/resume.pdf`.

# Adam R. Nelson

- {{phone}}
- <adam@nels.onl>
- [adam.nels.onl](https://adam.nels.onl)
- [github.com/ar-nelson](https://github.com/ar-nelson)

## Technical Skills

- Web
    - 10+ years professional experience
    - Modern HTML+CSS+JS
    - Full-stack (Node, Rails)
    - React, Angular
    - Typescript

- JVM
    - 10+ years professional experience
    - Java, Scala, Groovy, Kotlin
    - Akka, Play framework
    - JVM bytecode hacking

- Functional Programming
    - 8 years experience
    - Professional: Scala
    - Academic: SML, HOL4, Haskell
    - Hobbyist: Haskell, Scheme, dozens of minor languages
    - Designed and implemented own functional languages

- Linux Administration
    - 10+ years experience with Linux as primary OS
    - Shell scripting
    - Docker, Ansible

- Misc
    - Documentation, API design
    - Test-driven development
    - Agile methods
    - Participant in open-source community

## Professional Experience

1. **Maark**

    Senior Web Engineer

    2020-present

    - Worked with a team to build a shared library of vanilla JS and React
      components, Sass stylesheets, and Webpack configurations used across
      all sites and projects for a single client
    - Developed React single-page applications with a GraphQL API backend
    - Some full-stack development, including writing Java Spring code for an
      Adobe Experience Manager backend

2. **Cigna**

    Software Developer

    2018-2019

    - As Tech Lead of a small team of four developers, played a major role in
      planning and developing an Angular 6 single-page application from scratch
      and integrating with a complex network of legacy data services

3. **University of Massachusetts**

    Graduate Research Assistant

    2014-2017

    - Modeled the specification of the Mu Micro Virtual Machine, a
      cross-platform compile target for new programming languages similar to the
      JVM, in a logic programming system to prove its correctness
    - Traveled to Canberra, Australia to learn logic programming in person
      from the maintainer of the open-source HOL4 theorem prover

4. **Edifecs**

    Associate Software Engineer

    2012-2016

    - Modernized a Java/Groovy codebase by rewriting it in Scala and
      replacing a homebrew messaging library with Akka
    - Designed a test suite for a complex networked application involving
      coordinating and messaging among multiple JVM processes
    - Wrote and remotely maintained an ExtJS single-page web application as
      the UI for an intranet system used throughout the company

5. **Rosetta Stone**

    Software Development Intern

    2010-2011

    - Maintained a large Ruby on Rails codebase as part of an Agile team
    - Practiced test-driven development, using and updating an extensive suite
      of server and browser tests

## Education

1. **University of Massachusetts** - 2014-2017

    Master of Science, Computer Science (Programming Languages)

2. **University of Washington** - 2011-2014

    Bachelor of Science, Computer Science

3. **Bridgewater College** - 2009-2011

    Dual major in Computer Science and Physics

## Personal Projects

- **Schemepunk**¹ (2020-present)

    A portable standard library for R7RS Scheme. It is compatible with 7 Scheme
    dialects, and implements or polyfills 27 modules, including data structures,
    console pretty-printing, and a Datalog engine.

    While building this library, I participated in the SRFI mailing lists,
    a standardization process for Scheme libraries that has been ongoing since
    the 90s. I have authored two standards documents: SRFI 197² and SRFI 214³.

    - ¹ <https://github.com/ar-nelson/schemepunk>
    - ² <https://srfi.schemers.org/srfi-197/>
    - ³ <https://srfi.schemers.org/srfi-214/>

- **Tangled Scheme** (2020-present)

    A new compiler and interpreter for the R7RS Scheme language, including
    a linter, debugger, and Language Server. Tangled prioritizes developer
    friendliness above all else, and prints detailed error messages in the style
    of Elm or Rust.

    Ongoing project with no presence on GitHub yet; source available on request.

- **Osmosis** (2020-present)

    A peer-to-peer data synchronization library for native apps. Keeps mobile
    and desktop copies of an app in sync whenever they connect to the same
    network. Uses encryption and a custom JSON CRDT. A prototype⁴ is currently
    written in Node.js, but I plan to rewrite it in C or Rust.

    While developing this library, I published several sublibraries⁵⁶⁷ as small
    standalone Node packages.

    - ⁴ <https://github.com/ar-nelson/osmosis-js>
    - ⁵ <https://github.com/ar-nelson/broadcast-interfaces>
    - ⁶ <https://github.com/ar-nelson/monocypher-wasm>
    - ⁷ <https://github.com/ar-nelson/spartan-schema>

- **Jaspr**⁸ (2017)

    A new programming language implemented on top of Node.js. A Clojure-esque
    Lisp with immutable JSON as its core data structure. Designed with an
    async-by-default approach to concurrency.

    - ⁸ <https://github.com/ar-nelson/jaspr>
